#summary OWL and Ordering

== OWL and Ordering ==

OWL have no support for ordering, but the natural constructs from the underlying RDF vocabulary (rdf:List and rdf:nil) are unavailable in OWL-DL because they are used in its RDF serialization. In principle, rdf:Seq is not illegal but it depends on lexical ordering and has no logical semantics accessible to a DL classifier. 

In other terms (1): 
 # The elements in a container are defined using the relations rdf:_1, rdf:_2, and so on that have no formal definition in RDF. Using them for the purpose of reasoning will require us to define and enforce the properties of these relations. 
 # It is not possible to define a container that has elements only of a specific type. 
 # For updating a specific element in a container in a remote source, one is forced to transmit the whole container. 
 # It is not possible to associate provenance information with the elements in a container.

But OWL has greater expressiveness than RDF (with constructs such as transitive properties) and reasoning capabilities (for checking consistency and inferring subsumption). Thus, the idea of reasoning with sequential structures in OWL-DL looks appealing.

Drummond et al. (2) proposed a way of representing sequential structures in OWL-DL. Analyzing the work of Hirsh & Kudenko [2] Drummond argued that "their representation requires extensive rewriting, the relation of the resulting structures to the original lists is not intuitive and, more importantly, the resulting structures grow as the square of the length of the list". Then, he describes a general list pattern, an intuitive approach related to that suggested by Hayes [3] and incorporated in the Semantic Web Best Practice Working Group’s note on n-ary relations.

This content has been originally published in 2008  in [http://hcklab.blogspot.com/2008/12/moving-towards-swan-collections.html Paolo's blog].

1. Vinay K. Chaudhri, Bill Jarrold, John Pacheco. Exporting Knowledge Bases into OWL. OWL Experiences and Directions (OWLED 2006), Athens, Georgia, USA.
2. Nicholas Drummond, Alan Rector, Robert Stevens, Georgina Moulton, Matthew Horridge, Hai Wang and Julian Sedenberg (2006). Putting OWL in Order: Paterns for sequences in OWL. OWL Experiences and Directions (OWLED 2006), Athens, Georgia, USA.